---
title: Replit and the IDE in Browser Phenomenon
date: "2022-02-22"
description: The rise and benefits with browser IDEs.
tags: ['web-development']
author: You
layout: post
---

Collaborative coding in the browser is not a new concept, but I have yet to see a service handle it as well as [https://replit.com/](https://replit.com/) has. Building compiled projects (even Swift for iOS or discord bots) has never been easier and more fun.

There is this weird barrier that exists between an idea and creation when building new projects in the terminal and vscode. It is hard to explain, but the same thing can be true for web apps that aren’t great and just loading the same content in a browser is often a better experience. Not to say vscode isn’t great, its just having another app separating me from my project, one more layer to peel back.

With replit you can start pretty much any project in browser, collaborate on it with someone, push the code (commits, branches) to github as a public or private repo and you have something that can be polished and ready for your portfolio show case.

Not only that, but replit allows you to start using templates, and share your own projects with others. They will host your project, giving you a publicly shareable link, allow for .env variables, unit tests, database connections, and so much more.

A great tool to do the most important aspect of programming: starting. This allows for another layer of the developer environment to be peeled back. Most people work best when they don’t have to fight with their tools.